update-metadata
***************


Description
===========

Change the default Swift/S3 compartmentId of user's namespace into the
user-defined compartmentId. Upon doing this, all subsequent bucket
creations will use the new default compartment, but no previously
created buckets will be modified. A user must have the
NAMESPACE_UPDATE permission to make changes to the default
compartments for S3 and Swift.


Usage
=====

   oci os ns update-metadata [OPTIONS]


Options
=======


--namespace-name, --namespace, -ns [text]
-----------------------------------------

The top-level namespace used for the request. If not provided, this
parameter will be obtained internally using a call to 'oci os ns get'


--default-s3-compartment-id [text]
----------------------------------

The update compartment id for an S3 client if this field is set.


--default-swift-compartment-id [text]
-------------------------------------

The update compartment id for a Swift client if this field is set.


--from-json [text]
------------------

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file using the
file://path-to/file syntax.

The --generate-full-command-json-input option can be used to generate
a sample json file to be used with this command option. The key names
are pre-populated and match the command option names (converted to
camelCase format, e.g. compartment-id --> compartmentId), while the
values of the keys need to be populated by the user before using the
sample file as an input to this command. For any command option that
accepts multiple values, the value of the key can be a JSON array.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used.

For examples on usage of this option, please see our "using CLI with
advanced JSON options" link: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Conte
nt/API/SDKDocs/cliusing.htm#AdvancedJSONOptions


-?, -h, --help
--------------

For detailed help on any of these individual commands, enter <command>
--help.
