# fman build system
Cross-platform desktop applications are a lot of work:

 * Packaging an app into a standalone executable is not trivial.
 * Creating installers is tedious.
 * Code signing is a hassle but necessary to avoid OS warnings "untrusted app".
 * Auto-updating is a pain.

What makes the situation even worse is that most solutions to the above 
problems are platform-specific. So you have to create an installer for Mac, one
for Windows, etc.

In recent years, [Electron](https://electronjs.org/) has seen a lot of interest
as a technology for creating cross-platform desktop apps. The problem is, it is
very resource intensive and its performance is not good enough for many use
cases.

An alternative to Electron is [Qt](https://www.qt.io). It has been around for
many more years and can be much faster than Electron. Qt is written in C++, but
bindings are available for other languages. A popular choice for Python is
[PyQt](https://riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/intro). Another recent
binding for Python is [Qt for Python](https://www.qt.io/qt-for-python).

This project addresses the above problems for applications written with PyQt or
Qt for Python. It open sources code that was originally written for the
cross-platform file manager [fman](https://fman.io?s=fbs). By packaging
field-tested solutions in one cohesive package, this project lets you create
cross-platform desktop apps in minutes, not months.

## Getting started
The best place to get started is the
[official tutorial](https://github.com/mherrmann/fbs-tutorial).

## Licensing
This project is licensed under the GPL. In simple terms, this means you can use
it for free in open source projects that are also licensed under the GPL. If on
the other hand you want to use the project for a proprietary app where you don't
want to open source the code, then you need a commercial license. The price for
one developer is currently EUR 449. One year of updates is included. To obtain a
license, click
[here](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=UASZMJF24CR3S).

## Current Status
It's currently possible to package and create installers on Windows, Mac and 
Ubuntu, Fedora and Arch Linux. The next steps are code signing and automatic 
updates. To stay updated as these features are open sourced, please subscribe
[here](https://emailoctopus.com/lists/5061ca0f-33e0-11e8-a3c9-06b79b628af2/forms/subscribe).